# InfoGain-RAG: Boosting Retrieval-Augmented Generation via Document Information Gain-based Reranking and Filtering 

**Authors**: Zihan Wang, Zihan Liang, Zhou Shao, Yufei Ma, Huangyu Dai, Ben Chen, Lingtao Mao, Chenyi Lei, Yuqing Ding, Han Li  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.12765)  

**Abstract**: Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a promising approach to address key limitations of Large Language Models (LLMs), such as hallucination, outdated knowledge, and lacking reference. However, current RAG frameworks often struggle with identifying whether retrieved documents meaningfully contribute to answer generation. This shortcoming makes it difficult to filter out irrelevant or even misleading content, which notably impacts the final performance. In this paper, we propose Document Information Gain (DIG), a novel metric designed to quantify the contribution of retrieved documents to correct answer generation. DIG measures a document's value by computing the difference of LLM's generation confidence with and without the document augmented. Further, we introduce InfoGain-RAG, a framework that leverages DIG scores to train a specialized reranker, which prioritizes each retrieved document from exact distinguishing and accurate sorting perspectives. This approach can effectively filter out irrelevant documents and select the most valuable ones for better answer generation. Extensive experiments across various models and benchmarks demonstrate that InfoGain-RAG can significantly outperform existing approaches, on both single and multiple retrievers paradigm. Specifically on NaturalQA, it achieves the improvements of 17.9%, 4.5%, 12.5% in exact match accuracy against naive RAG, self-reflective RAG and modern ranking-based RAG respectively, and even an average of 15.3% increment on advanced proprietary model GPT-4o across all datasets. These results demonstrate the feasibility of InfoGain-RAG as it can offer a reliable solution for RAG in multiple applications. 

---
