# THOR: Tool-Integrated Hierarchical Optimization via RL for Mathematical Reasoning 

**Authors**: Qikai Chang, Zhenrong Zhang, Pengfei Hu, Jiefeng Ma, Yicheng Pan, Jianshu Zhang, Jun Du, Quan Liu, Jianqing Gao  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.13761)  

**Abstract**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have made remarkable progress in mathematical reasoning, but still continue to struggle with high-precision tasks like numerical computation and formal symbolic manipulation. Integrating external tools has emerged as a promising approach to bridge this gap. Despite recent advances, existing methods struggle with three key challenges: constructing tool-integrated reasoning data, performing fine-grained optimization, and enhancing inference. To overcome these limitations, we propose THOR (Tool-Integrated Hierarchical Optimization via RL). First, we introduce TIRGen, a multi-agent actor-critic-based pipeline for constructing high-quality datasets of tool-integrated reasoning paths, aligning with the policy and generalizing well across diverse models. Second, to perform fine-grained hierarchical optimization, we introduce an RL strategy that jointly optimizes for both trajectory-level problem solving and step-level code generation. This is motivated by our key insight that the success of an intermediate tool call is a strong predictor of the final answer's correctness. Finally, THOR incorporates a self-correction mechanism that leverages immediate tool feedback to dynamically revise erroneous reasoning paths during inference. Our approach demonstrates strong generalization across diverse models, performing effectively in both reasoning and non-reasoning models. It further achieves state-of-the-art performance for models of a similar scale on multiple mathematical benchmarks, while also delivering consistent improvements on code benchmarks. Our code will be publicly available at this https URL. 

---
