# Fine-Tuning Large Language Models and Evaluating Retrieval Methods for Improved Question Answering on Building Codes 

**Authors**: Mohammad Aqib, Mohd Hamza, Qipei Mei, Ying Hei Chui  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.04666)  

**Abstract**: Building codes are regulations that establish standards for the design, construction, and safety of buildings to ensure structural integrity, fire protection, and accessibility. They are often extensive, complex, and subject to frequent updates, making manual querying challenging and time-consuming. Key difficulties include navigating large volumes of text, interpreting technical language, and identifying relevant clauses across different sections. A potential solution is to build a Question-Answering (QA) system that answers user queries based on building codes. Among the various methods for building a QA system, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) stands out in performance. RAG consists of two components: a retriever and a language model. This study focuses on identifying a suitable retriever method for building codes and optimizing the generational capability of the language model using fine-tuning techniques. We conducted a detailed evaluation of various retrieval methods by performing the retrieval on the National Building Code of Canada (NBCC) and explored the impact of domain-specific fine-tuning on several language models using the dataset derived from NBCC. Our analysis included a comparative assessment of different retrievers and the performance of both pre-trained and fine-tuned models to determine the efficacy and domain-specific adaptation of language models using fine-tuning on the NBCC dataset. Experimental results showed that Elasticsearch proved to be the most robust retriever among all. The findings also indicate that fine-tuning language models on an NBCC-specific dataset can enhance their ability to generate contextually relevant responses. When combined with context retrieved by a powerful retriever like Elasticsearch, this improvement in LLM performance can optimize the RAG system, enabling it to better navigate the complexities of the NBCC. 

---
# HiPerRAG: High-Performance Retrieval Augmented Generation for Scientific Insights 

**Authors**: Ozan Gokdemir, Carlo Siebenschuh, Alexander Brace, Azton Wells, Brian Hsu, Kyle Hippe, Priyanka V. Setty, Aswathy Ajith, J. Gregory Pauloski, Varuni Sastry, Sam Foreman, Huihuo Zheng, Heng Ma, Bharat Kale, Nicholas Chia, Thomas Gibbs, Michael E. Papka, Thomas Brettin, Francis J. Alexander, Anima Anandkumar, Ian Foster, Rick Stevens, Venkatram Vishwanath, Arvind Ramanathan  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.04846)  

**Abstract**: The volume of scientific literature is growing exponentially, leading to underutilized discoveries, duplicated efforts, and limited cross-disciplinary collaboration. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) offers a way to assist scientists by improving the factuality of Large Language Models (LLMs) in processing this influx of information. However, scaling RAG to handle millions of articles introduces significant challenges, including the high computational costs associated with parsing documents and embedding scientific knowledge, as well as the algorithmic complexity of aligning these representations with the nuanced semantics of scientific content. To address these issues, we introduce HiPerRAG, a RAG workflow powered by high performance computing (HPC) to index and retrieve knowledge from more than 3.6 million scientific articles. At its core are Oreo, a high-throughput model for multimodal document parsing, and ColTrast, a query-aware encoder fine-tuning algorithm that enhances retrieval accuracy by using contrastive learning and late-interaction techniques. HiPerRAG delivers robust performance on existing scientific question answering benchmarks and two new benchmarks introduced in this work, achieving 90% accuracy on SciQ and 76% on PubMedQA-outperforming both domain-specific models like PubMedGPT and commercial LLMs such as GPT-4. Scaling to thousands of GPUs on the Polaris, Sunspot, and Frontier supercomputers, HiPerRAG delivers million document-scale RAG workflows for unifying scientific knowledge and fostering interdisciplinary innovation. 

---
# Retrieval Augmented Generation Evaluation for Health Documents 

**Authors**: Mario Ceresa, Lorenzo Bertolini, Valentin Comte, Nicholas Spadaro, Barbara Raffael, Brigitte Toussaint, Sergio Consoli, Amalia Muñoz Piñeiro, Alex Patak, Maddalena Querci, Tobias Wiesenthal  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.04680)  

**Abstract**: Safe and trustworthy use of Large Language Models (LLM) in the processing of healthcare documents and scientific papers could substantially help clinicians, scientists and policymakers in overcoming information overload and focusing on the most relevant information at a given moment. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) is a promising method to leverage the potential of LLMs while enhancing the accuracy of their outcomes. This report assesses the potentials and shortcomings of such approaches in the automatic knowledge synthesis of different types of documents in the health domain. To this end, it describes: (1) an internally developed proof of concept pipeline that employs state-of-the-art practices to deliver safe and trustable analysis for healthcare documents and scientific papers called RAGEv (Retrieval Augmented Generation Evaluation); (2) a set of evaluation tools for LLM-based document retrieval and generation; (3) a benchmark dataset to verify the accuracy and veracity of the results called RAGEv-Bench. It concludes that careful implementations of RAG techniques could minimize most of the common problems in the use of LLMs for document processing in the health domain, obtaining very high scores both on short yes/no answers and long answers. There is a high potential for incorporating it into the day-to-day work of policy support tasks, but additional efforts are required to obtain a consistent and trustworthy tool. 

---
# LSRP: A Leader-Subordinate Retrieval Framework for Privacy-Preserving Cloud-Device Collaboration 

**Authors**: Yingyi Zhang, Pengyue Jia, Xianneng Li, Derong Xu, Maolin Wang, Yichao Wang, Zhaocheng Du, Huifeng Guo, Yong Liu, Ruiming Tang, Xiangyu Zhao  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.05031)  

**Abstract**: Cloud-device collaboration leverages on-cloud Large Language Models (LLMs) for handling public user queries and on-device Small Language Models (SLMs) for processing private user data, collectively forming a powerful and privacy-preserving solution. However, existing approaches often fail to fully leverage the scalable problem-solving capabilities of on-cloud LLMs while underutilizing the advantage of on-device SLMs in accessing and processing personalized data. This leads to two interconnected issues: 1) Limited utilization of the problem-solving capabilities of on-cloud LLMs, which fail to align with personalized user-task needs, and 2) Inadequate integration of user data into on-device SLM responses, resulting in mismatches in contextual user information.
In this paper, we propose a Leader-Subordinate Retrieval framework for Privacy-preserving cloud-device collaboration (LSRP), a novel solution that bridges these gaps by: 1) enhancing on-cloud LLM guidance to on-device SLM through a dynamic selection of task-specific leader strategies named as user-to-user retrieval-augmented generation (U-U-RAG), and 2) integrating the data advantages of on-device SLMs through small model feedback Direct Preference Optimization (SMFB-DPO) for aligning the on-cloud LLM with the on-device SLM. Experiments on two datasets demonstrate that LSRP consistently outperforms state-of-the-art baselines, significantly improving question-answer relevance and personalization, while preserving user privacy through efficient on-device retrieval. Our code is available at: this https URL. 

---
