# FindTheFlaws: Annotated Errors for Detecting Flawed Reasoning and Scalable Oversight Research 

**Authors**: Gabriel Recchia, Chatrik Singh Mangat, Issac Li, Gayatri Krishnakumar  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.22989)  

**Abstract**: As AI models tackle increasingly complex problems, ensuring reliable human oversight becomes more challenging due to the difficulty of verifying solutions. Approaches to scaling AI supervision include debate, in which two agents engage in structured dialogue to help a judge evaluate claims; critique, in which models identify potential flaws in proposed solutions; and prover-verifier games, in which a capable 'prover' model generates solutions that must be verifiable by a less capable 'verifier'. Evaluations of the scalability of these and similar approaches to difficult problems benefit from datasets that include (1) long-form expert-verified correct solutions and (2) long-form flawed solutions with annotations highlighting specific errors, but few are available.
To address this gap, we present FindTheFlaws, a group of five diverse datasets spanning medicine, mathematics, science, coding, and the Lojban language. Each dataset contains questions and long-form solutions with expert annotations validating their correctness or identifying specific error(s) in the reasoning. We evaluate frontier models' critiquing capabilities and observe a range of performance that can be leveraged for scalable oversight experiments: models performing more poorly on particular datasets can serve as judges/verifiers for more capable models. Additionally, for some task/dataset combinations, expert baselines exceed even top model performance, making them more beneficial for scalable oversight experiments. 

---
# BEATS: Bias Evaluation and Assessment Test Suite for Large Language Models 

**Authors**: Alok Abhishek, Lisa Erickson, Tushar Bandopadhyay  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.24310)  

**Abstract**: In this research, we introduce BEATS, a novel framework for evaluating Bias, Ethics, Fairness, and Factuality in Large Language Models (LLMs). Building upon the BEATS framework, we present a bias benchmark for LLMs that measure performance across 29 distinct metrics. These metrics span a broad range of characteristics, including demographic, cognitive, and social biases, as well as measures of ethical reasoning, group fairness, and factuality related misinformation risk. These metrics enable a quantitative assessment of the extent to which LLM generated responses may perpetuate societal prejudices that reinforce or expand systemic inequities. To achieve a high score on this benchmark a LLM must show very equitable behavior in their responses, making it a rigorous standard for responsible AI evaluation. Empirical results based on data from our experiment show that, 37.65\% of outputs generated by industry leading models contained some form of bias, highlighting a substantial risk of using these models in critical decision making systems. BEATS framework and benchmark offer a scalable and statistically rigorous methodology to benchmark LLMs, diagnose factors driving biases, and develop mitigation strategies. With the BEATS framework, our goal is to help the development of more socially responsible and ethically aligned AI models. 

---
# HRET: A Self-Evolving LLM Evaluation Toolkit for Korean 

**Authors**: Hanwool Lee, Soo Yong Kim, Dasol Choi, SangWon Baek, Seunghyeok Hong, Ilgyun Jeong, Inseon Hwang, Naeun Lee, Guijin Son  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.22968)  

**Abstract**: Recent advancements in Korean large language models (LLMs) have spurred numerous benchmarks and evaluation methodologies, yet the lack of a standardized evaluation framework has led to inconsistent results and limited comparability. To address this, we introduce HRET Haerae Evaluation Toolkit, an open-source, self-evolving evaluation framework tailored specifically for Korean LLMs. HRET unifies diverse evaluation methods, including logit-based scoring, exact-match, language-inconsistency penalization, and LLM-as-a-Judge assessments. Its modular, registry-based architecture integrates major benchmarks (HAE-RAE Bench, KMMLU, KUDGE, HRM8K) and multiple inference backends (vLLM, HuggingFace, OpenAI-compatible endpoints). With automated pipelines for continuous evolution, HRET provides a robust foundation for reproducible, fair, and transparent Korean NLP research. 

---
# When LLM Therapists Become Salespeople: Evaluating Large Language Models for Ethical Motivational Interviewing 

**Authors**: Haein Kong, Seonghyeon Moon  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.23566)  

**Abstract**: Large language models (LLMs) have been actively applied in the mental health field. Recent research shows the promise of LLMs in applying psychotherapy, especially motivational interviewing (MI). However, there is a lack of studies investigating how language models understand MI ethics. Given the risks that malicious actors can use language models to apply MI for unethical purposes, it is important to evaluate their capability of differentiating ethical and unethical MI practices. Thus, this study investigates the ethical awareness of LLMs in MI with multiple experiments. Our findings show that LLMs have a moderate to strong level of knowledge in MI. However, their ethical standards are not aligned with the MI spirit, as they generated unethical responses and performed poorly in detecting unethical responses. We proposed a Chain-of-Ethic prompt to mitigate those risks and improve safety. Finally, our proposed strategy effectively improved ethical MI response generation and detection performance. These findings highlight the need for safety evaluations and guidelines for building ethical LLM-powered psychotherapy. 

---
