# DistrAttention: An Efficient and Flexible Self-Attention Mechanism on Modern GPUs 

**Authors**: Haolin Jin, Mengbai Xiao, Yuan Yuan, Xiao Zhang, Dongxiao Yu, Guanghui Zhang, Haoliang Wang  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2507.17245)  

**Abstract**: The Transformer architecture has revolutionized deep learning, delivering the state-of-the-art performance in areas such as natural language processing, computer vision, and time series prediction. However, its core component, self-attention, has the quadratic time complexity relative to input sequence length, which hinders the scalability of Transformers. The exsiting approaches on optimizing self-attention either discard full-contextual information or lack of flexibility. In this work, we design DistrAttention, an effcient and flexible self-attention mechanism with the full context. DistrAttention achieves this by grouping data on the embedding dimensionality, usually referred to as $d$. We realize DistrAttention with a lightweight sampling and fusion method that exploits locality-sensitive hashing to group similar data. A block-wise grouping framework is further designed to limit the errors introduced by locality sensitive hashing. By optimizing the selection of block sizes, DistrAttention could be easily integrated with FlashAttention-2, gaining high-performance on modern GPUs. We evaluate DistrAttention with extensive experiments. The results show that our method is 37% faster than FlashAttention-2 on calculating self-attention. In ViT inference, DistrAttention is the fastest and the most accurate among approximate self-attention mechanisms. In Llama3-1B, DistrAttention still achieves the lowest inference time with only 1% accuray loss. 

---
# Controllable Hybrid Captioner for Improved Long-form Video Understanding 

**Authors**: Kuleen Sasse, Efsun Sarioglu Kayi, Arun Reddy  

**Link**: [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2507.17047)  

**Abstract**: Video data, especially long-form video, is extremely dense and high-dimensional. Text-based summaries of video content offer a way to represent query-relevant content in a much more compact manner than raw video. In addition, textual representations are easily ingested by state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs), which enable reasoning over video content to answer complex natural language queries. To solve this issue, we rely on the progressive construction of a text-based memory by a video captioner operating on shorter chunks of the video, where spatio-temporal modeling is computationally feasible. We explore ways to improve the quality of the activity log comprised solely of short video captions. Because the video captions tend to be focused on human actions, and questions may pertain to other information in the scene, we seek to enrich the memory with static scene descriptions using Vision Language Models (VLMs). Our video understanding system relies on the LaViLa video captioner in combination with a LLM to answer questions about videos. We first explored different ways of partitioning the video into meaningful segments such that the textual descriptions more accurately reflect the structure of the video content. Furthermore, we incorporated static scene descriptions into the captioning pipeline using LLaVA VLM, resulting in a more detailed and complete caption log and expanding the space of questions that are answerable from the textual memory. Finally, we have successfully fine-tuned the LaViLa video captioner to produce both action and scene captions, significantly improving the efficiency of the captioning pipeline compared to using separate captioning models for the two tasks. Our model, controllable hybrid captioner, can alternate between different types of captions according to special input tokens that signals scene changes detected in the video. 

---
